Post ID: 1i1xqiw
Post Title: I need to ask about Powerschool's response
Post Author: Square_Pear1784
Up/Down: 33.0/0.0
Content: The school stopped using Powerschool for 2024-2025 school year and switched to Infinite Campus. Well, that does not exclude us from the situation since the issue goes back all the way to 2013. Since I am new they did not grant me access (since I never had access to powerschool when the school had it), but the head of school was able to get access and pull the data they told us about. 
 
 So they sent an email basically telling us what type of data to look for and how many in each category was compromised. Also, telling us how to view and export that data. 
 
 However, then telling us that we don't need to notify any student, parent, or staff of these details. That they would be reaching out themselves to let families and staff know. However, they said they didnt know all the details in the data compromised 
 
 My head of school feels that by doing this they have put liability on us to an extent. I can't help but agree. By giving us this info and telling us that they can't be for sure on all info in certain text fields, it puts liability on us. However we don't need to contact the families?? 
 
 Also, so we are just to believe that the bad actors truly deleted the data and that it isnt out there. 
  
 The Head of School and myself can't help but feel stressed, frustrated, and unsure of next steps. The communication from Powerschool feels like "trust us, the data is gone. But hey here is what was compromised to the exact details. We will be notifying individuals so you dont have to, but we also dont know all the details in the data so be aware and take a look at the data compromised, but yeah its not out there so dont worry." Then our already busy admin is bracing for questions they are not sure how to answer. 
 
 Sorry for the vent. Am I missing something? How do you all feel about the response so far?

---------------------

Comment ID: m7ml5kb
Comment Author: Echidna-Cute
Up/Down: 3/0
Link: https://reddit.com/r/k12sysadmin/comments/1i1xqiw/i_need_to_ask_about_powerschools_response/m7ml5kb/
Parent comment file: 16.txt
Content: I spent 2 days talking with lawyers after we were notified.  Basically what our attorney and the attorney from our cyber insurance said was that we did need to notify to an extent, but we had to be careful in what we said.  We want to appear as transparent as possible, but not say something that oversteps and puts liability on us.  They advised that we avoid the term "breach".  I would highly suggest discussing whatever you do with an attorney, I would hope you have cyber insurance.  One of your first calls should have been to your cyber insurance company to make sure they are ready to pick up anywhere that PowerSchool fails.  There is a lot of legal speak in what they are saying about notifications, like they will notify "in compliance with regulatory and contractual obligations."  Does your state have regulation that requires them to notify or does it fall on you, if your state doesn't have regulations does your contract state that PowerSchool will be required to make the notifications?  If you answered no to both of those, you may end up being responsible for all notifications.  While we're all hoping that PowerSchool does the right thing, we won't know until they tell us exactly what they are going to do.