Post ID: 1i1xqiw
Post Title: I need to ask about Powerschool's response
Post Author: Square_Pear1784
Up/Down: 33.0/0.0
Content: The school stopped using Powerschool for 2024-2025 school year and switched to Infinite Campus. Well, that does not exclude us from the situation since the issue goes back all the way to 2013. Since I am new they did not grant me access (since I never had access to powerschool when the school had it), but the head of school was able to get access and pull the data they told us about. 
 
 So they sent an email basically telling us what type of data to look for and how many in each category was compromised. Also, telling us how to view and export that data. 
 
 However, then telling us that we don't need to notify any student, parent, or staff of these details. That they would be reaching out themselves to let families and staff know. However, they said they didnt know all the details in the data compromised 
 
 My head of school feels that by doing this they have put liability on us to an extent. I can't help but agree. By giving us this info and telling us that they can't be for sure on all info in certain text fields, it puts liability on us. However we don't need to contact the families?? 
 
 Also, so we are just to believe that the bad actors truly deleted the data and that it isnt out there. 
  
 The Head of School and myself can't help but feel stressed, frustrated, and unsure of next steps. The communication from Powerschool feels like "trust us, the data is gone. But hey here is what was compromised to the exact details. We will be notifying individuals so you dont have to, but we also dont know all the details in the data so be aware and take a look at the data compromised, but yeah its not out there so dont worry." Then our already busy admin is bracing for questions they are not sure how to answer. 
 
 Sorry for the vent. Am I missing something? How do you all feel about the response so far?

---------------------

Comment ID: m7a45ii
Comment Author: linus_b3
Up/Down: 25/0
Link: https://reddit.com/r/k12sysadmin/comments/1i1xqiw/i_need_to_ask_about_powerschools_response/m7a45ii/
Parent comment file: 16.txt
Content: It's easy to throw stones and I try to avoid it because things happen, but PowerSchool's missteps here are appalling.

* Their all-powerful employee accounts weren't secured by MFA, were accessible from anywhere, and apparently had no sort of alerting to warn that one person had logged into hundreds of instances from a foreign country in a short period of time.
* They learned about it a week later, then inexplicably didn't tell any of us for **10 more days**.  That's a breach of the contract that they have in place with many districts.
* Somehow, in those 10 days, they still didn't have publications ready to go, and didn't have an indication of specific data compromised or even a breakdown explaining how we can dig through logs ourselves.  We had to figure it out.  They can try to say they were working hard on it, but it's extremely clear that it wasn't all hands on deck for them, which is disappointing.
* Even after the initial meetings, they still didn't get information out in a timely manner, citing things being hung up in legal.  What did come out is awful and feels like it's starting down a path to backpedaling on some promises (see the suddenly non-committal wording around credit monitoring/identity protection).

It's so frustrating that they seem to be patting themselves on the back for their response here when it feels like it couldn't have been much worse.  They need to see a shake-up of leadership and some significant financial pain from this.