Post ID: 1i87jzh
Post Title: Question to those dealing with the PowerSchool Data breach
Post Author: mjh2901
Up/Down: 18.0/0.0
Content: Before this goes any further, we are not a powerschool shop and my heart goes out to everyone dealing with this. I am looking at our processess for handling a data breach, and am wondering.
 
 Are any of you tracking the cost of dealing with this breach? For my district we would be probably around 5 or 6 grand in attorney time vetting the notifications and advising admin/board. We have about 6000 students but if this was a Campus breach it would include graduates going back about 10 years so we would be notifying in the range of 30,000 people via mail, the estimate for that is about $2 per letter including employee time and a good couple grand in database employee time getting the exports and excel files ready for the mail merges.
 
 What I am getting at is this type of breach the vendor is completely at fault and cost the district close to a 100 grand, which exceeds the yearly hosting/licensing costs for the SIS system. I am guessing the math is similar for other districts and just scales based on size.
 
 I am going to ignore all the class action lawsuit stuff and go straight to is anyone approaching power school, or considering approaching a vendor that does this with a request for the direct costs?
 
 As a group should we be talking about our future vendor contracts and cost shifting language should a databreach cost the district, and the fault lies completely with the vendor?
 
 I am trying to look at this from how do we learn from this in how we deal with vendors that store student data.

---------------------

Comment ID: m8wlish
Comment Author: NorthernVenomFang
Up/Down: 5/0
Link: https://reddit.com/r/k12sysadmin/comments/1i87jzh/question_to_those_dealing_with_the_powerschool/m8wlish/
Parent comment file: 24.txt
Content: This has sparked ongoing meetings for my manager, director, and myself for the foreseeable future.  Legal team is involved.  Superintendent & our Associate Superintendent is involved. Communications team is involved. Finance manager is involved as he has been worried about AtrieveSRB since he started 5 years ago.

We also now are starting to look at every vendor/3rd party we use for security issues, this is probably going to take the rest of the school year to iron out; BMS systems, boiler systems, lighting, PA systems, clocks... Basically if it connects to the network we have to give it a full audit.

This all should have been done in the first place decades ago.

Cost is not going to be measurable.  The effect is going to be finally, maybe, primary (K-12) might start taking security more seriously as a primary function, instead of putting it off.