Post ID: 1i87jzh
Post Title: Question to those dealing with the PowerSchool Data breach
Post Author: mjh2901
Up/Down: 18.0/0.0
Content: Before this goes any further, we are not a powerschool shop and my heart goes out to everyone dealing with this. I am looking at our processess for handling a data breach, and am wondering.
 
 Are any of you tracking the cost of dealing with this breach? For my district we would be probably around 5 or 6 grand in attorney time vetting the notifications and advising admin/board. We have about 6000 students but if this was a Campus breach it would include graduates going back about 10 years so we would be notifying in the range of 30,000 people via mail, the estimate for that is about $2 per letter including employee time and a good couple grand in database employee time getting the exports and excel files ready for the mail merges.
 
 What I am getting at is this type of breach the vendor is completely at fault and cost the district close to a 100 grand, which exceeds the yearly hosting/licensing costs for the SIS system. I am guessing the math is similar for other districts and just scales based on size.
 
 I am going to ignore all the class action lawsuit stuff and go straight to is anyone approaching power school, or considering approaching a vendor that does this with a request for the direct costs?
 
 As a group should we be talking about our future vendor contracts and cost shifting language should a databreach cost the district, and the fault lies completely with the vendor?
 
 I am trying to look at this from how do we learn from this in how we deal with vendors that store student data.

---------------------

Comment ID: m8r21t3
Comment Author: Fresh-Basket9174
Up/Down: 3/0
Link: https://reddit.com/r/k12sysadmin/comments/1i87jzh/question_to_those_dealing_with_the_powerschool/m8r21t3/
Parent comment file: 24.txt
Content: Excellent questions.  

In this case PowerSchool is agreeing to cover all notifications both to staff/students as well as state Attorney General's where necessary.  They are also offering 2 years of credit monitoring/identity theft protection to every person who had information exposed regardless of whether a SS# was attached or not.  

But, we are concerned that their response time may not meet the requirement for our states reporting guidelines so we are handling that piece with an outside firm.  

I do think going forward that having language in a contract regarding covering costs or having the company handle notifications within the legally required timeframe for your state/locality would be a reasonable ask.  For today, we are working with a firm handling this issue for several clients and they will approach PowerSchool to cover the costs for this.  Its not impossible that they will not be able to recoup the costs, but I believe that a firm representing multiple victims will have a better chance then a single small to medium size district will.