Post ID: 1i87jzh
Post Title: Question to those dealing with the PowerSchool Data breach
Post Author: mjh2901
Up/Down: 18.0/0.0
Content: Before this goes any further, we are not a powerschool shop and my heart goes out to everyone dealing with this. I am looking at our processess for handling a data breach, and am wondering.
 
 Are any of you tracking the cost of dealing with this breach? For my district we would be probably around 5 or 6 grand in attorney time vetting the notifications and advising admin/board. We have about 6000 students but if this was a Campus breach it would include graduates going back about 10 years so we would be notifying in the range of 30,000 people via mail, the estimate for that is about $2 per letter including employee time and a good couple grand in database employee time getting the exports and excel files ready for the mail merges.
 
 What I am getting at is this type of breach the vendor is completely at fault and cost the district close to a 100 grand, which exceeds the yearly hosting/licensing costs for the SIS system. I am guessing the math is similar for other districts and just scales based on size.
 
 I am going to ignore all the class action lawsuit stuff and go straight to is anyone approaching power school, or considering approaching a vendor that does this with a request for the direct costs?
 
 As a group should we be talking about our future vendor contracts and cost shifting language should a databreach cost the district, and the fault lies completely with the vendor?
 
 I am trying to look at this from how do we learn from this in how we deal with vendors that store student data.

---------------------

Comment ID: m8wdybi
Comment Author: VariationTrue5493
Up/Down: 2/0
Link: https://reddit.com/r/k12sysadmin/comments/1i87jzh/question_to_those_dealing_with_the_powerschool/m8wdybi/
Parent comment file: 24.txt
Content: One way to learn is start questioning all your vendors directly now while the PowerSchool incident is fresh in their minds.  I have sent messages to any vendor that has student names and DOB.  I will say some of the responses have been eye opening and has led to some vendors changing their security practices for either our tenant / site or changing their security for all of their customers.  

Feel free to use what I have sent or punch it up to fit your needs.  

In light of the PowerSchool cybersecurity incident, I would like to know what steps “Vendor Name” has taken to secure support accounts that have access to "District Name" “Vendor Name” tenant / site.  For example, please provide information such as the support portal is secured behind a VPN, and the support account logins are secured with an MFA / 2FA solution.