Post ID: 1i87jzh
Post Title: Question to those dealing with the PowerSchool Data breach
Post Author: mjh2901
Up/Down: 18.0/0.0
Content: Before this goes any further, we are not a powerschool shop and my heart goes out to everyone dealing with this. I am looking at our processess for handling a data breach, and am wondering.
 
 Are any of you tracking the cost of dealing with this breach? For my district we would be probably around 5 or 6 grand in attorney time vetting the notifications and advising admin/board. We have about 6000 students but if this was a Campus breach it would include graduates going back about 10 years so we would be notifying in the range of 30,000 people via mail, the estimate for that is about $2 per letter including employee time and a good couple grand in database employee time getting the exports and excel files ready for the mail merges.
 
 What I am getting at is this type of breach the vendor is completely at fault and cost the district close to a 100 grand, which exceeds the yearly hosting/licensing costs for the SIS system. I am guessing the math is similar for other districts and just scales based on size.
 
 I am going to ignore all the class action lawsuit stuff and go straight to is anyone approaching power school, or considering approaching a vendor that does this with a request for the direct costs?
 
 As a group should we be talking about our future vendor contracts and cost shifting language should a databreach cost the district, and the fault lies completely with the vendor?
 
 I am trying to look at this from how do we learn from this in how we deal with vendors that store student data.

---------------------

Comment ID: m8tjhgr
Comment Author: combobulated
Up/Down: 2/0
Link: https://reddit.com/r/k12sysadmin/comments/1i87jzh/question_to_those_dealing_with_the_powerschool/m8tjhgr/
Parent comment file: 24.txt
Content: This is why we have cyber security insurance.

If the costs get to be past what we're comfortable just paying out of pocket, then we go to the insurance. 

So far, our costs aren't expected to exceed what our deductible for said insurance would be.  We're a small, private school.

There's certainly a lot of new talk about contracts and obligations, to go with the already existing talk about such things.  And it's all good and important.

But at the end of the day - there's not always a lot of choices.  And when there are choices, it's not always up to the people who you'd prefer.  And when it is up to certain people, security isn't always at the top of their list.  This is how it's always been.  And incidents like there *hopefully* move the needle a bit on that.  As a small, independent school - we're pretty much at the mercy of vendors and hopefully that larger districts (with more pull...) band together to force change for everyone.  Let's face it, no vendor is going to just willingly accept more risk/accountability than they are forced to.


For us, more of "what we learn" is about knowing what information we actually ARE storing/giving and who/when/where it is.  

Fun fact - There is data you cannot DELETE in Powerschool.  So while you "own" the data, you don't really have full control over it.  The workaround seems to be to just "overwrite" it with false data.  And to the best of my knowledge, there's no tools built-in or available 3rd party to do such thing in a controlled, scheduled, audited, automated, and managed way.