Post ID: 1ivbwjq
Post Title: What I think about the PowerSchool breach and its implications
Post Author: SpecialistArm4741
Up/Down: 11.0/0.0
Content: What I think is this that breach highlights a failure not just in protecting data but in implementing basic security practices. It doesnt necessarily mean PS didn't encrypt its data, but it suggests they didn't use data segregation or robust role based access control RBAC. These would have limited the impact by ensuring only authorized users from a specific school or district could access their data. If PS had used unique encryption keys per school, only people from School B could see their data, and the same for School C. District admins would have access only to their district's data. This approach, combined with RBAC and authorization layers, wouldve improved their security posture and compliance with regulations like GDPR, HIPAA, and FERPA. Ignoring these standards shows poor data handling and a disregard for regulatory frameworks IDK. The fact that stolen credentials granted access to a wide range of data suggests this might have been a company level credential breach. Such credentials often have broad privileged access for maintenance or support, which, when exploited, can be devastating big time. This points to a lack of proper segregation of duties and principle of least privilege. Poor implementation is also evident if their admin panel had vulnerabilities, like weak authentication, lack of MFA, or flaws such as insecure APIs. If attackers could impersonate an admin or bypass login mechanisms, encryption wouldnt help they'd still get full database access easily just like that. What could be the result? Beyond reputational damage, schools might rethink contracts with PS platform if you think about it. Stricter government regulations could follow, mandating better security for student data systems. For PowerSchool, this is a wakeup call and robust security isn't optional, and ignoring it undermines trust and compliance. 
  
 thoughts?

---------------------

Comment ID: me5m0jz
Comment Author: jakery43
Up/Down: 0/0
Link: https://reddit.com/r/k12sysadmin/comments/1ivbwjq/what_i_think_about_the_powerschool_breach_and_its/me5m0jz/
Parent comment file: 34.txt
Content: My thoughts: What a coincidence that this happens right after their acquisition by Bain Capital. Powerschool was fine for a long time, then shortly after their new ownership get the keys and surely starting to "find efficiencies", they are breached. 

Of course we don't know the full situation, but I suspect the security community will get wakeup call after wakeup call but still have to hand over the keys to some suits and some "security guys" they know who did it cheaper at the other companies they acquired. Without the transparency you'd get with a publicly owned company, they can do whatever sounds good at the moment.

I think stricter government regulations would be a great start, but I just don't think congress is really capable of doing a good job of it. It would be a tough law to write in the first place, and there's always pressure to get security for cheaper to pump up valuations when a breach probably won't happen under any given current leadership's watch. Also, congress would probably want to give the government a "backdoor" to the data anyway. For "large moat" b2b/b2g companies like this, I wouldn't be surprised to see them spend more on cyber insurance than they do on hardening their systems. After all, have you heard of a single school actually dumping PS and moving to a competitor after this? 

At the end of the day, Bain and other private equity companies have different (shorter term...) goals than a company like this should. The problem is structural: different incentives for leadership than people like you and I whose data was taken. Maybe I'm just a socialist, but I think the long-term solution  might be employee-owned companies where profits are shared and leadership is incentivized to see security as an investment rather than an expense. Since there won't be a majority of the stakeholders "exiting" at any one time, it always makes sense to do the right thing for the future.